now a report by the charity Oxfam is
warning Gaza is at breaking point
because of Israeli restrictions on
humanitarian Aid it says it's become
virtually impossible for Aid agencies to
reach starving Palestinians children are
suffering the most survey found that 85%
of them had not eaten for an entire day
at least once in the last 3 days before
the survey was conducted Oxfam warns by
the time famine is declared it will be
too late
and conditions are deteriorating in
overcrowded displacement camps there are
only 121 toilets serving 500,000 people
in almasi in Western Rafa that means
more than 4,000 people are sharing each
available toilet and restricted food is
putting thousands of people at risk
400,000 lers of fuel is needed a day in
order to keep critical services like
hospitals running but Israel is allowing
only 19% of that fuel into
Gaza we can speak now to hadil kazaz
she's oxfam's gender coordinator for the
Middle East and North Africa region she
joins us now from rala thank you so much
for your time today I understand you
were actually born in Gaza and have
family in Gaza today so really you are
best place to tell us uh what is going
on there uh what are your family telling
you about the situation
there uh the situation is getting worse
every day and my family lived they were
ordered to evacuate from Gaza at the
early days of the war and they went to
rafah and they stayed there for almost
six months when they were ordered hasy
and quickly to leave uh without being
prepared They Carried the very little
they had while they managed in the last
in the first six months to live in
crowded houses where at least five or
six families were sharing at least a
building or a flat apartment uh they
were now they are forced to stay in
tense in the masasi of kanun an area
which is full of course sand it's a
desert place um my sister two days ago
was bitten by a Scorpio that's one of an
additional point of misery and pain for
her where she has to endure uh the huge
uh the alarming heat temperatures during
the day and they called the temperatures
at night lack of food lack of Safety and
Security they hear the bombardment
surrounding them continuously in Al orat
and ra so they are in the middle H the
area that you described is it's
just around 70 square kilometer which
hosts 1.7 million so you can imagine in
the small camp where my family is now
there are 70 people and they share very
small toilet uh other people cannot have
this luxury they are are even considered
lucky uh to be 7 sharing a small toilet
that is flooding h no uh Sweet Water so
they have to buy water it's very
expensive to buy water uh they depend on
the sea water most of the time for
washing and for washing clothes and
cleaning everything um my my sister for
example who is also suffering from a
tumor in her spine breed War uh doesn't
have any access to medication or any
access to Medical Services even when she
got bitten by a scorpion so by all all
of this is only accumulation of the
what's happening because of the closure
the complete closure of the Gaza Strip
because of the uh um lack of access to
humanitarian Services the small the few
hospitals that were operating are not
operating now because of lack of fuel
because of lack of access to medication
and medical supplies in addition to the
food
issue which we warned from since the
beginning apologies for interrupting I
can't imagine how helpless uh and
terrified you must be feeling uh to have
family in that situation where you can't
do anything about it just to be clear
what you're saying is in the last eight
months since the War Began they started
off in Gaza then they moved to Rafa and
then Rafa they moved to almasi because
in in the last in the course of the last
month when the Israelis went into the
south I mean how terrified ing was the
situation in Rafa that forced them to
move very terrifying because first of
all it came suddenly without any
preparation like one of my sisters
actually had to move 10 times from one
house to the other H and then she had to
leave like in half an hour to carry
whatever she could uh she had to pay a
huge amount of money for a small car to
carry whatever she can and it took her
almost 4 hours to move because of the
crowded uh streets and there's no
streets basically people are everywhere
anywhere that is empty you can find the
tent uh it is not it's not an easy it's
not a Humane situation where the family
lives and it's not absolutely not
possible to continue like this I worry
so much for my mother who's 8 years old
and uh she has been basically fasting
most of the time because of lack of food
and she wanted to provide some for the
small children and the family um so she
she she choose to to fast to use the
Islamic way of fasting to minimize the
meals she has to one one meal a day and
now she lost almost 20 25 kilos of her
weight uh and at at an 80 years old age
you cannot afford to lose that much
weight so of course it's terrifying it's
the reality of dayto day that maybe the
world doesn't see and doesn't hear
enough about uh where people are living
on canned food for 8 months can you
imagine not having access to fresh
vegetables or fruits or any nutrients
and absorbing all these kinds of
preservant and things that comes with
the canned food uh it's a situation that
is not ongoing it's not possible to
continue and that's why we continue
demanding for immediate access to
humanitarian support and that's why the
breast release of Oxfam basically says
that we need immediate access that
allows food to come medications and
items that people need allow also
ability for humanitarian actors to move
and to be able to access uh these people
and help them in the different way they
can I am I I I very much hope that your
please to listen to hadil kazaz oxfam's
gender coordinator for the Middle East
and North Africa region thank you so
much thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
Channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer